Global Consulting Appointment Management System

This system is designed to be a comprehensive solution tailored to the needs of the Global Consulting Organization.
Country data, first-level-division data, and contacts are read only and pre-populated into the database. This
application allows users to create, update, and delete their customers and appointments to ease the difficulty of
maintaining a schedule and to help avoid scheduling conflicts.

By Matt Rios, mrios76@wgu.edu, version 1.0.1, June 6, 2021

Built with IntelliJ Community 2020.1.1, Amazon Coretto 11 jdk11.0.7_10, JavaFX-SDK-11.0.2


Directions:
At the login screen enter your userID and password. There is an already created account under username: test,
password: test for testing purposes. To create a new user account, click on Request now and type in the required fields.
Upon logging in the system will alert you of any appointments within the next 15 minutes.

The main screen consists of two main sections. The top half is the appointments section. The table in the middle will
list all appointments and relevant data for the logged in user. The radio buttons to the left of the appointments table
allow filtering what is shown in the table. All will show all appointments, month will show only appointments during the
current calendar month, and week will show only appointments during the current calendar week. The start time and end
times shown will always be based off of the time of the system.

Below the table are a few buttons, the refresh table button will refresh the appointments table and is used primarily to
update the appointment times in the event the system time changes so the user does not have to reopen the application.
The add appointment button will bring up the window to add a new appointment. All fields are required and the
appointment ID is automatically generated by the system. Upon clicking save the system will make sure all fields are
valid, that the appointment falls within office hours, and that the customer involved in the appointment does not
already have a scheduled appointment for that time. Upon creating an appointment the window will close and the
appointments table will update automatically.

The next button is to edit an appointment. An appointment must be selected in the appointments table or the user will
receive an error. The edit appointments window looks similar to the add appointments window except all of the fields
will be pre-populated to reflect the selected appointment. Any number of fields can be changed and the data will go
through the same validity checks as with adding a new appointment. The delete appointment button also requires an
appointment be selected in the appointments window or an error message will be generated. A confirmation message will
be generated to inform the user the delete is permanent and to confirm. A success message is generated on successful
deletion.

Below the appointments section is the customer sections which functions much the same way without the options to filter.
The table shows all the current customers and their relevant data. Below the table are buttons to add, edit, and delete
customers. The add customer button opens a new window and requires all fields to be complete and valid prior to saving
or an error message will be generated. The customer ID is auto-generated by the system. A country must be selected prior
to selecting a first level division. The edit customer button also functions the same as the edit appointments button.
A customer must be selected in the table and the fields will be pre-populated with the data for that customer. Any
number of fields can be edited and the data will be validated prior to saving.

The delete customer functions similarly to delete appointment in that you must have a customer selected in the table or
an error message will be generated. Additionally, all appointments associated with the customer must be deleted prior to
deleting the customer or an error message will generate. If those requirements are met a confirmation box is generated
confirming the deletion.

At the bottom of the main window there are two button. Clicking the generate reports button will expand to three
options. The customer appointments option will create a window which allows the user to select a month, an
appointment type, and will display the number of appointments that match both in the text field. The contact schedules
option will generate a report showing all appointments for a selected contact. The table starts off empty prior to a
contact being selected in the drop down box. Once a contact is selected, the table will populate with all appointments
for that contact.

The last option is the division customers report. This window looks very similar to the contact appointments window and
functions much the same way. The table will begin empty but will populate with all the customer information for the
selected division when a division is selected in the drop down box below the table. Finally, next to the generate report
button is an exit button which exits the application.

Description of additional report:
The additional report for A3f was discussed briefly above. The division customers report will allow the user to obtain
a list of all customers for a specific first level division. This can be helpful for finding a specific customer that
when you know the division they belong to, especially if the total number of customers or divisions is extensive.
Additionally, it can provide insight into how active and successful a division is by being determine divisions with
a greater than average or less than average number of customers.

MySQL Driver:
mysql-connector-java-8.0.23